{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf460
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Ryan Spangler \
Discussion Week 7\
\
1.  The authors address a variety of economic concepts, in an attempt to contrast the ABS approach with more traditional approaches (which they refer to as "neoclassical").  One that they examined was the concept of price equilibrium, that as trading progressed the price of various goods would reach an equilibrium point.  In traditional economics the models are set up in a way to attain this result automatically.  In a way, this is the whole thrust of traditional models, that the equations are based on old thermodynamic closed-system equilibrium models, and the variables labeled in such a way that price equilibrium is the inevitable result.  Price equilibrium is the "equilibrium" in this economic/thermodynamic system.  So it is no surprise that price equilibrium emerges from the traditional models in this way.  In contrast, sugarscape holds no thermodynamic preconceptions about the outcome of the price, instead letting the prices (or what corresponds to price) settle themselves.  It uses an equation based in economics to make this adjustment, but all of the interactions are made locally.  Even though the model is simplified, this kind of interaction is far more realistic than the perfectly rational, auction-based models of the traditional school.  It also arrives at a different result, as it never truly arrives at equilibrium, though it does tend towards it.  This also reflects the nature of real trade, where prices are constantly fluctuating and nothing ever truly comes to rest, though it does approach various values as "attractors".  Another concept they address is that of pareto optimality.  In traditional economics, this refers to the idea that goods become distributed in a way that optimizes the well-being of all participants.  More concretely, pareto optimality postulates that trade will continue until there are no trades which will make anyone better off without making someone worse off.  Once again, traditional top-down equations claim this process reaches a kind of equilibrium, where no further trades need take place.  In sugarscape, due to local interactions and the bottom-up approach, no equilibrium occurs, and pareto optimality is never totally optimal.  This actually more closely reflects reality, where nothing is perfect and no agent has unbounded rationality.  \
\
2.  Well, that is the whole point of models, is to work with them in lieu of the actual phenomenon, which could be unwieldy to work with and run experiments on.  The more closely the model predicts various qualities of the real-world phenomenon, the more useful it is.  No model can fully replicate the entirety of any phenomenon without *being* that phenomenon, so as models grow in complexity, they lose some of their value as models.  Each camp, the neoclassical and the computer simulationists are actually doing the same thing, just with different models.  The only difference is how closely these various models reflect the underlying reality they are attempting to simulate.  \
\
3.  By "proto-history" they are talking about simulating the course of the emergence of civilization, and in that way, making a model of *history* itself.  The emergence of tribes, conflict, cultural transmission all play into both what we call history and the authors' "proto-history".  I believe the entirety of the sugarscape model is laden with overapplication of personifying concepts, to the point that it is hard to tease apart what is really happening from the images the authors have imposed on the computer behavior.  The division into "tribes" is an obvious consequence of having dual sugar hills, for instance.  Just because things lay out in a spatially familiar way does not mean they correspond to things that are familiar to us.  I would like to see all of this approached from a place of openness to the behavior itself, without hindering the perception with loaded terms and the wholesale importation of pre-established ideas.\
\
4.  You experiment!  That is the scientific process:  make a hypothesis (model, if you will), test it, compare the tests against the model's predictions, revise model. }