{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf460
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Discussion week 3\
\
Ryan Spangler\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f1 \cf0 3.1  In your opinion is the agent-based (decentralized)\
metaphor truly a different paradigm? Why or why not?\
\
Response:  I wrote a passage for this that I later realized was utterly ridiculous and dogmatic.  I guess I got carried away?  For posterity:\
\
On the whole centralization/decentralization debate: Wayne dismissed my attribution of the universe as a bottom-up, emergent system as not useful, but really this whole centralized/decentralized distinction is entirely illusory, nothing actually works in a decentralized way. Centralization is a concept we as humans impose on things, and informs the way we organize things, but it is not because we intend to do so or because it even makes sense, but because we actually don't know any better. If anything betrays our limitations and shortsightedness as a collective it is our inability to see things in a decentralized way, even though that is how everything works. It is almost comical, if you take a step back, that we have been surrounded by such breathtaking examples of decentralized emergent phenomena for so long (birds flocking, ants working, herds roaming, the entire ecosystem endlessly replenishing itself), and in spite of all that, here we are, giving orders, directing, orchestrating, bending to our will. Amidst the beauty and backdrop of the entire cosmos we ignore everything and fixate on the immediate and the simplistic, attempting to force the universe to be something we can understand, rather than watching and listening and learning from it as it is. This is why I think it *is* useful to consider the entire universe a bottom-up decentralized process, of which we are emergent effects: it puts things in the proper perspective, and rightfully illuminates centralized thinking as the denialistic, violent habit it is. The universe is not simplistic, and there is no way we can succeed at forcing it to be. We must actually rise up and meet it at its level, which thankfully is possible since we are part of and inseparable from it. Only our thinking needs to change.\
\
Regardless, I also understand Wayne's concern that by claiming "everything is emergent" you are in danger of rendering the term devoid of meaning (and it is one of the most important terms we have). But I am not saying everything is emergent indiscriminately, but more that everything that we find of interest is in some way playing a role in some emergent process (and possibly in a variety of emergent systems simultaneously). The things we interact with on a day to day basis are emergent process layered on emergent process layered on emergent process. At every level is an entirely distinct, entirely independent substrate built upon some other substrate and forming the basis of some higher level substrate. This is what defines each level from the next. So when I say that everything is in some way emergent, it is not an invalidation of the term, but a perspective on the world.\
\
So yes, it is a different paradigm, it is time we finally reckoned with things in all their complexity, rather than trying to simplify it away. It is exciting really, to think of all the discoveries waiting to be made once we are able to wield the decentralized, emergent model in some kind of formalized way.\
\
3.2  Do you think most people are biased towards thinking about systems from a top-down (centralized) perspective or a bottom-up (decentralized) perspective? What would you offer as evidence? How might such biases influence one's views regarding causation?\
\
Response:  Most people have a centralized perspective, but that is simply because, as entities, that is the most natural way to approach things.  We relate to our world through a complex of metaphors, the most direct being our experience as a being distinct from the world (whether or not we are *actually* distinct is another question).  When we act, when we affect some change in the world, we see ourselves as the agents of change.  This gives us an entire implicit conceptual framework within which to understand causation.  If something happens, someone must have done it.  Since many of the events we witness do not have an obvious agent at work (weather, volcanoes, sun rising, tides etc) we postulate an causal agent, a "god" or "spirit" that is behind these phenomena.  This is a simple matter of applying our direct experience as causal agents to everything else we encounter, it is the easiest and most direct explanation.  These explanations persist even when no direct evidence for such agents is present, which is evidence of the power of the centralized approach:  it is applied even in cases where reality blatantly contradicts the tale.  In the simplified world of centralized causation, every event has a single cause, and that cause is a willful agent.  Needless to say, even our own decisions are rooted in the decentralized activity of our nervous system, so the sensation of ourselves as a single united identity is even misleading.  This perceived "centralization" is really an artifact of our perspective, which is impossible to see outside of since it is what we do the seeing with.  \
\
3.3  Do you find the idea of "complexity economics" (as typified by the work by Epstein and Axtell) compelling? Why or why not? Specifically, do you believe that results drawn from vastly simplified "toy" worlds like Sugarscape could have any real world relevance?\
\
Response:  I must admit, I found the heavy use of personification in the description of Sugarscape to be somewhat troubling.  Rather than describe what was happening directly, they instantly leapt to such phrases as "middle class", "he", "metabolic", etc.  The wholesale and unashamed import of the entirety of the reader's already richly associated concept of folk economics and society is more telling of our ability to personify anything than it is about the dynamics of sugarscape itself.  Though a model is by nature a simplification of a process, too many of the conclusions drawn from the sugarscape model are dependent on nothing more than the author's preconceptions of economics than were inherent in the model itself.  I would like to see sugarscape described in terms less directing towards obvious conclusions, in a domain that has nothing to do with economics, and see how well the various conclusions hold up.}