{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf460
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13940\viewh10580\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Discussion Week 4\
Ryan Spangler\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\fi720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\fi720\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 1.\'a0 I think that the main point of this is to finally find a way to formalize complex processes, all of the other uses stem from this particular one.  Because if you can formalize these processes, then you can apply the same rigor mathematicians are used to, which allow them to discover new implications from their models that were not apparent in the phenomena being modeled.  This to me is the true use of simulations, to be able to interact with the simulation under various controlled circumstances as if it were the real thing, without having to attempt to run controlled experiments in the messy real world scenario.  That is why in a way, all of these uses are related.  Training has no purpose if simulation is not accurate, it could even be damaging.  Discovery and prediction both stem from formalization.  Entertainment is almost meaningless, in that people can be entertained by anything that moves, basically (lava lamps anyone?).  Sure, entertainment is nice, but it is a side-effect of making interesting things, not the purpose of a scientific endeavor.  If we have formalization, we can get to any of the other uses.  But if we don't have formalization, no amount of training or entertainment or "discovery" can get us there. \
2.  Well, the tension between accuracy and simplicity is straightforward, the simpler the model the less accurate and vice versa, all other factors notwithstanding.  The model becomes more and more complex as the limit approaches the actual system being modeled, until its complexity equals that of the system, because at that point it *is* the system.  They would be indistinguishable.  Prediction vs understanding is less clear cut.  If you understand something, but cannot make predictions about it, is that real understanding?  I understand the concern that in complex systems we cannot predict exactly what will happen when, but we can predict *what kinds of things* will happen, and possibly how often they will happen.  This is still a form of prediction, albeit a less strict interpretation.  So you can predict things if you don't understand them (think magical oracle that gives correct answers, with no explanation), but you cannot understand something without being able to predict things about it also, unless the understanding is of the kind "This system is entirely unpredictable (random)".  \
3.  G+T's view of emergence was much more closely aligned with my own, being based on the idea that something is emergent when it attains an identity of its own, independent of the substrate upon which it is formed.  It is necessarily dependent on that substrate, in that if the substrate was removed, the emergent phenomena would no longer exist.  But it is no way the same as the interactions which compose it, and in particular it defines a new level which requires new terminology to describe.  Resnick's definition was based much more on the idea of surprise, or the unexpected, which was unsatisfying to me because it required an independent observer to be in a certain state of ignorance, which is temporary and not well defined.  \
4.  }