{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf460
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\qj

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Discussion questions week 2\
\
Ryan Spangler\
\
2.1.  Discuss the idea of emergent behavior in light of the examples provided in Chapter 3. Do you think all the simulations described in this chapter exhibit emergence? Which would you say exhibits the least emergence? Why?\
\
Answer:  I like how we spend most of the thread trying to figure out what exactly we are talking about. Emergence does seem like an elusive concept, but I take one example in particular as a guide to a possible definition: In the traffic example, it described how the boy discovered that though the cars moved forward, the "jam" moved backwards, composed of, yet independent of the cars themselves. This seems like an archetypically emergent effect. So amidst the field of already given definitions, I hazard another: Something is *emergent* if it exhibits an identity which behaves independently of the *particular* parts which constitute it. In other words, an emergent behavior depends on the elements which compose it, but it doesn't depend on any individual one. Most of the time the individual components are being endlessly swapped out, while the emergent behavior somehow maintains an identity in the face of this constant flux. Somehow, because the connection between this emergent identity maintaining coherency among the individual behaviors of the multitude of interacting elements is the great mystery.\
\
This definition points to a possible metric which can be used to say something has "more" or "less" emergence (which would give meaning to the otherwise meaningless question of which simulation exhibits the "least" emergence): If this emergent behavior persists in the face of a wider variety of conditions, and if it exhibits a wider variety of behavior, then it could be said to be "more" emergent. \
\
In this case, the controversy over the emergence "status" of the turtle geometry simulation can be resolved. There is definitely not a lot of emergence going on here, but there is a degree of emergence in a function retaining its identity and the various turtles *describing* the function, while no one of them attempting to convey the entire thing. They just each pick their point, and the function emerges -- the function is manifested by the turtles collective action. Highly constrained to be sure, but still some kind of emergence is going on there. \
\
It is helpful to identify exactly what is considered to have emerged from each simulation:\
\
slime mold - colony\
ants - food trail\
traffic - jams\
termites - heights and number of wood piles\
turtles and frogs - distribution structure\
turtle ecology - equilibrium levels\
turtle geometry - shapes\
forest fire - total destruction threshhold\
recursive trees - fractal structure (?)\
\
The recursive trees simulation seems the most questionable as to whether it exhibits emergence, simply because it is not clear what is supposed to have emerged. A fractal structure? There doesn't seem to be anything independent of the components here.\
\
2.2  What might be some of the advantages of using ABS to learn about systems? Be sure to discuss parallelism.\
\
Answer:  I think the big dream people usually have when approaching things with an ABS is that if they hit upon the right simple behavior for the components, the system as a whole will exhibit the behavior they are looking for, without actually having to implement it explicitly!  This is a nice tale, but I have doubts that you can actually get anything for free in an ABS.  Implementing the components for any given system would probably require a thorough understanding of how those components interact and how the global behavior emerges from those interactions.  That is why experimenting with something like netlogo is great though, because it develops an intuition for these relationships that could later be used to implement the dynamics of a given system.  Certain systems really are composed of a multitude of undifferentiated interacting elements so these are a natural fit for ABS.  In this case, parallelism is a necessity, not simply a nicety.  \
\
2.3  Describe the simulation in Chapter 3 that you found most relevant to your interests or field of study. How was it implemented? What were the results?\
\
Answer:  The ant colony one resonated the most with me personally.  I have always had a fascination with ants, and have studied them extensively with the purpose of understanding better how emergent phenomena arise from the behaviors of the individual elements.  The model he presented was simplistic, showing only the formation of trails while ignoring the bulk of colony behaviors, but this of course was his intention, to keep the model simple.  I like especially the use of the patches as a surrogate communication medium.  Rather than interact directly, to tell each other where the food is for example, they communicated indirectly by leaving a marker in the surrounding environment.  I think there is a lot of potential for systems whose elements accrete knowledge in the surrounding environment in this way, it takes the burden of the knowledge or long-term retention of the situation off of the elements themselves and let's them react to signals in the environment instead, which have accumulated in response to the situation.  This way, the elements remain simple while the environment collects information.  This also decentralizes the processing, allowing any element to respond to a particular bit of information, rather than partitioning information between elements in a way that cannot be generally shared without direct communication.\
\
2.4  Describe a system (other than those mentioned in Chapter 1) that is\
guided by bottom-up processes rather than top-down processes (i.e. it is\
decentralized rather than centralized). What processes in this system\
are 'bottom-up' processes?\
\
Answer:  Isn't everything a bottom-up process?  Unless we are granting omniscience to some overseeing deity, no one composed the universe atom by atom, photon by photon.  The entire churning nature of existence sprawls out of a decentralized process.  Actually, I think it would be harder to find an actual centralized process, since centralization is really a relic and myth of human creation.  Even a human being is not a single thing, are the things humans create therefore the result of a decentralized process?  ; )   I guess by convention, humans create things in a centralized way, while the rest of the universe contents itself with the painstaking decentralized approach, but in reality, nothing is truly top-down.  If there is some entity that is directing the composition of particles or components, then by necessity it must have arisen from a decentralized bottom-up process.}